README.md, before:

# The Best Free Things
If you're cheap like me, you want good free stuff. Here's a list of all my favorite good free things.

## Pictures
### Image Editing
Bitmap/Raster Graphics: [Paint.NET](http://www.getpaint.net/index.html), [Gimp](http://www.gimp.org/)

Vector Graphics: [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/)

Online bitmap/PDF/.sketchpad (whatever that is): [Sketch.io Sketchpad](sketch.io/sketchpad)


### Image Hosting
Clean interface with a few non-intrusive ads (no account required): [Cubeupload](http://cubeupload.com/)

Professional-looking host with a few ads (needs account): [Photobucket](http://photobucket.com/)



### Image Taking (screenshots)
In-browser or offline, automatic uploading: [Lightshot](https://app.prntscr.com/)

Offline only, also takes animated GIFs: [Gyazo](https://gyazo.com/) *(NOTE: I gained a virus soon after installing this. However, nobody else has had issues. Most likely safe, but be careful.)*

Windows-only, no automatic upload: [Snipping Tool](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/use-snipping-tool-capture-screen-shots#1TC=windows-8) *(Most likely came with Windows)*

Mac-only, no automatic upload: [CMD+SHIFT+4 and select area](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201361)

### Game art
Free game art and sounds: [OpenGameArt](http://opengameart.org/), [Kenney Assets](http://kenney.nl/assets)

## Video
### Video Hosting
Popular & Often-used: [Youtube](http://youtube.com/)

Less comments, more video: [Vimeo](http://vimeo.com/)

### Video Playing
Also has minor editing ability: [VLC](http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html)

### Video Creating
#### Video Recording

Difficult to use, tons of options and features, no watermark: [OBS (Open Broadcaster Software)](https://obsproject.com/) *(Also does live-streams)*

Easy to use, not many options, has watermark: [Bandicam](http://www.bandicam.com/)

#### Animating

3D Keyframe animation (and modeling): [Blender](http://www.blender.org/)

### Video Editing

Difficult to use, all-you-can eat buffet of features: [Lightworks](https://www.lwks.com/) *(There is a paid version of lightworks. Just get the free one. See the blue "Lightworks Free" header on the homepage.)*

Easy to use basic features: [Windows Movie Maker](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/get-movie-maker-download), [iMovie](http://www.apple.com/mac/imovie/) *(comes free with mac computers)*

## Text Editing
### Editing for Documents
**(And also spreadsheets, presentations, etc. Basically free Microsoft Office.)**

Full-featured online editor with auto-save, live multi-person editing, and more: [Google Docs](http://docs.google.com/) *(Also known as Google Drive. Docs and drive aren't technically the same thing, but they pretty much are. I don't understand either.)*

Offline Editor: [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/download/libreoffice-fresh/)

### Code Editing

Code for the front-end web (HTML, CSS, JS, etc): [Brackets](http://brackets.io/)

Online JS/HTML/CSS: [JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net), [Codepen](http://codepen.io/)

General Code (all languages):  [Atom](https://atom.io/), [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/), [Notepad++]
(https://notepad-plus-plus.org)

Beginners' Lanuage and Editor: [Scratch](https://scratch.mit.edu/) *(Great community for kids)*

### Terminal/Command Line Replacements

Windows: [Cmder](http://cmder.net/)

OS X: [iTerm2](https://www.iterm2.com/)

## Music Making

Sheet Music: [MuseScore](https://musescore.org/)

Text-based music making: [Lilypond](http://www.lilypond.org)

Chiptune/8-bit: [Famitracker](http://famitracker.com/)

Online Sheet Music: [flat.io](https://flat.io/), [Noteflight](noteflight.com)

Digital Audio Workstation (DAW): [LMMS](https://lmms.io/)
## Music Library
### Classical Music Library
A free and public domain library: [IMSLP.org](http://imslp.org/) 

## File Management

### File Compression

Easy-to-use compressor: [7zip](http://www.7-zip.org/)

### File Explorer Alternative

Add Google Chrome-style tabs to the Windows file explorer: [Clover](http://ejie.me/)

## Internet
### Web Hosting
Free, no ads and student friendly: [Gwiddle](https://gwiddle.co.uk)

Free, has addons and elements to make setup easy [heroku](https://heroku.com)

Free and fast hosting with no backend: [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com)

Commit message:

Added Aseprite (ln. 8) and JetBrains (ln. 77)
I probably messed up some formatting, sorry.

README.md, after:

# The Best Free Things
If you're cheap like me, you want good free stuff. Here's a list of all my favorite good free things.

## Pictures
### Image Editing
Bitmap/Raster Graphics: [Paint.NET](http://www.getpaint.net/index.html), [Gimp](http://www.gimp.org/)

Pixel art: [Aseprite](http://www.aseprite.org/) *(Pre-compiled binaries cost, but you can download the source and compile for free)*

Vector Graphics: [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/)

Online bitmap/PDF/.sketchpad (whatever that is): [Sketch.io Sketchpad](sketch.io/sketchpad)


### Image Hosting
Clean interface with a few non-intrusive ads (no account required): [Cubeupload](http://cubeupload.com/)

Professional-looking host with a few ads (needs account): [Photobucket](http://photobucket.com/)



### Image Taking (screenshots)
In-browser or offline, automatic uploading: [Lightshot](https://app.prntscr.com/)

Offline only, also takes animated GIFs: [Gyazo](https://gyazo.com/) *(NOTE: I gained a virus soon after installing this. However, nobody else has had issues. Most likely safe, but be careful.)*

Windows-only, no automatic upload: [Snipping Tool](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/use-snipping-tool-capture-screen-shots#1TC=windows-8) *(Most likely came with Windows)*

Mac-only, no automatic upload: [CMD+SHIFT+4 and select area](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201361)

### Game art
Free game art and sounds: [OpenGameArt](http://opengameart.org/), [Kenney Assets](http://kenney.nl/assets)

## Video
### Video Hosting
Popular & Often-used: [Youtube](http://youtube.com/)

Less comments, more video: [Vimeo](http://vimeo.com/)

### Video Playing
Also has minor editing ability: [VLC](http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html)

### Video Creating
#### Video Recording

Difficult to use, tons of options and features, no watermark: [OBS (Open Broadcaster Software)](https://obsproject.com/) *(Also does live-streams)*

Easy to use, not many options, has watermark: [Bandicam](http://www.bandicam.com/)

#### Animating

3D Keyframe animation (and modeling): [Blender](http://www.blender.org/)

### Video Editing

Difficult to use, all-you-can eat buffet of features: [Lightworks](https://www.lwks.com/) *(There is a paid version of lightworks. Just get the free one. See the blue "Lightworks Free" header on the homepage.)*

Easy to use basic features: [Windows Movie Maker](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/get-movie-maker-download), [iMovie](http://www.apple.com/mac/imovie/) *(comes free with mac computers)*

## Text Editing
### Editing for Documents
**(And also spreadsheets, presentations, etc. Basically free Microsoft Office.)**

Full-featured online editor with auto-save, live multi-person editing, and more: [Google Docs](http://docs.google.com/) *(Also known as Google Drive. Docs and drive aren't technically the same thing, but they pretty much are. I don't understand either.)*

Offline Editor: [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/download/libreoffice-fresh/)

### Code Editing

Code for the front-end web (HTML, CSS, JS, etc): [Brackets](http://brackets.io/)

Online JS/HTML/CSS: [JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net), [Codepen](http://codepen.io/)

General Code (all languages):  [Atom](https://atom.io/), [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/), [Notepad++]
(https://notepad-plus-plus.org)

IDEs for most languages: [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/) *([free if you're a student](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/), paid otherwise)*

Beginners' Lanuage and Editor: [Scratch](https://scratch.mit.edu/) *(Great community for kids)*

### Terminal/Command Line Replacements

Windows: [Cmder](http://cmder.net/)

OS X: [iTerm2](https://www.iterm2.com/)

## Music Making

Sheet Music: [MuseScore](https://musescore.org/)

Text-based music making: [Lilypond](http://www.lilypond.org)

Chiptune/8-bit: [Famitracker](http://famitracker.com/)

Online Sheet Music: [flat.io](https://flat.io/), [Noteflight](noteflight.com)

Digital Audio Workstation (DAW): [LMMS](https://lmms.io/)
## Music Library
### Classical Music Library
A free and public domain library: [IMSLP.org](http://imslp.org/) 

## File Management

### File Compression

Easy-to-use compressor: [7zip](http://www.7-zip.org/)

### File Explorer Alternative

Add Google Chrome-style tabs to the Windows file explorer: [Clover](http://ejie.me/)

## Internet
### Web Hosting
Free, no ads and student friendly: [Gwiddle](https://gwiddle.co.uk)

Free, has addons and elements to make setup easy [heroku](https://heroku.com)

Free and fast hosting with no backend: [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com)
